docs/src/installation.md, before:

# Before using CALiPPSO

In the next sections we describe in some detail our implementation of the CALiPPSO algorithm. But before reading how our code works we suggest that if you're new to [Julia](https://julialang.org/) it might be useful to have [its documentation](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/) at hand, specially for understanding some terminology (although we tried to keep it to a minimum).
Besides, several of the functions we define rely on [JuMP](https://jump.dev/)'s functionality, so if you are unfamiliar with this package consider skimming through [its documentation](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/) (specially the parts on [creating a model](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/manual/models/#Create-a-model) and defining/accessing [constraints](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/manual/constraints/)). 


## Dependencies

First of all, you'll need to have Julia installed and running ([here](https://julialang.org/downloads/) you can find the downloads options and installation instructions). Besides, if you want to use our code without any modification, or you would like to reproduce the results we report in our paper, you'll need to have the [Gurobi optimizer](https://www.gurobi.com/) already properly installed in your system. 
- Note that Gurobi is a licensed solver, but a free license is available for academic use. In any case, see the [choosing another solver](@ref changing_the_solver) for instructions on how to use another (hopefully open-sourced) optimizer.
- Consider also that, of [the different solvers we tested](@ref Testing-different-solvers), we observed that Gurobi is clearly the most performant and accurate solver, so we do recommend using these scripts in combination with it for more precise results.

Now, the scripts included here depend on basic modules already included in Julia's standard library (like `LinearAlgebra` and `Statistics`), but also on few others that you need to install yourself. They are the following:

1. [JuMP.jl](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/): As mentioned in the beginning, this is a basic package. It is used for all the mathematical modelling of the LP problems required.
   - Importantly, JuMP is *not* a solver itself, but the *interface* through which a optimization problem is created.
   - The optimization is done by a *solver* (*e.g.* GLPK, Gurobi, etc), which JuMP calls when a model is optimized (using, *e.g.* the `optimize!` function).
   - Throughout this document, we try to follow the JuMP's terminology: so we call *solver* any package for optimization (*e.g.* GLPK or HiGHS) and *optimizer* the function contained in this packages that is called for actually optimizing a model. Indeed, any solver compatible with JuMP has an `Optimizer` function defined in it.
   
3. [StaticArrays.jl](https://juliaarrays.github.io/StaticArrays.jl/stable/): To use static (*i.e.* fixed size) vectors for particles positions, contact vectors, etc. This type of arrays considerably speed-up vector operations (such as sum, norm, etc.) and, also importantly, guarantee that all vectors have the same dimensionality. Indeed, the value of ``d`` is inherited as the *type* of a static array (*e.g.* a contact vector is of type `SVector{d,Float64}`) and this helps to write generic code for any dimensionality.

4. [SpecialFunctions.jl](https://specialfunctions.juliamath.org/stable/): To compute the packing fraction in arbitrary dimensions we use the ``\Gamma`` function implemented in this package.

5. [Distributions.jl](https://github.com/JuliaStats/Distributions.jl): Functions to generate random initial configurations rely on some of the functions defined in this package. So it is *only necessary* if the script `random_initial_conditions.jl` is included at some point.

2. [Gurobi.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/Gurobi.jl): The Julia wrapper for the [Gurobi Solver](https://www.gurobi.com/). This is the solver we tested the most and the default choice in our algorithm. Besides, we use it to produce all the results reported in our paper.
!!! note "Installing Gurobi"
    Gurobi requires manual installation. This means that, before adding `Gurobi.jl` via the Julia's package manager, you need to have Gurobi properly installed in your system. Once you've downloaded Gurobi's latest version, follow the [installation instructions](https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/quickstart.html) of your operative system. 



Fortunately, all these packages (except for `Gurobi.jl`, which requires a manual installation of the solver itself) are very easy to install using Julia's package manager. For instance,

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add(["JuMP", "StaticArrays", "SpecialFunctions", "Distributions"])
```
will install all of them. And once you've installed Gurobi in your computer, similarly executing `Pkg.add("Gurobi")` will add the Julia wrapper.

Besides, if you want to use [an optimizer other](@ref changing_the_solver) than Gurobi, you'll need to install it too. If you want to run the tests described using [different solvers](@ref Testing-different-solvers) you also need to install: [HiGHS.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/HiGHS.jl), [GLPK.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/GLPK.jl), [Clp.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/Clp.jl), [Hypatia.jl](https://github.com/chriscoey/Hypatia.jl), and [COSMO.jl](https://github.com/oxfordcontrol/COSMO.jl). All these packages can also be conveniently be installed with `Pkg.add("<solver of your choice>")` for a single one, or

```julia
Pkg.add(["HiGHS", "GLPK", "Clp", "Hypatia", "COSMO"])
```
for adding all of them simultaneously (also after importing the `Pkg` module).

!!! warning "Issue with COSMO and Hypatia"
    In [our tests] (@ref changing_the_solver) we observed that while our code runs without any errors using both `COSMO` and `Hypatia` solvers, the packing obtained maybe either non-isostatic or the contact forces differ significantly from the ones found using the other solvers. We think that this is due to a lower precision in the solutions obtained by these solvers.

    If this is the case, it is likely that this issue can be easily solved by a correct tunning of the solvers' parameters. We were not able to find such good combination, but we did not try much. So if you have any ideas or can help us, please [contact us](@ref Getting-help)

Commit message:

+ GitHub repo url of CALiPPSO

docs/src/installation.md, after:

# Installation

The first step is to download the scripts of [the CALiPPSO repo](https://github.com/rdhr/CALiPPSO). But before being able to use it, you'll need to have all the [Dependencies](@ref) installed. The installation should be fairly simple, specially if you can use the Gurobi solver from Julia. In any case, below we provide mode details about how to include all the needed Julia's packages. 

If you have everything set up, you can jump to the [Basic usage](@ref) section.

## Before using CALiPPSO

In the next sections we describe in some detail our implementation of the CALiPPSO algorithm. But before reading how our code works we suggest that if you're new to [Julia](https://julialang.org/) it might be useful to have [its documentation](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/) at hand, specially for understanding some terminology (although we tried to keep it to a minimum).
Besides, several of the functions we define rely on [JuMP](https://jump.dev/)'s functionality, so if you are unfamiliar with this package consider skimming through [its documentation](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/) (specially the parts on [creating a model](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/manual/models/#Create-a-model) and defining/accessing [constraints](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/manual/constraints/)). 


## Dependencies

First of all, you'll need to have Julia installed and running ([here](https://julialang.org/downloads/) you can find the downloads options and installation instructions). Besides, if you want to use our code without any modification, or you would like to reproduce the results we report in our paper, you'll need to have the [Gurobi optimizer](https://www.gurobi.com/) already properly installed in your system. 
- Note that Gurobi is a licensed solver, but a free license is available for academic use. In any case, see the [choosing another solver](@ref changing_the_solver) for instructions on how to use another (hopefully open-sourced) optimizer.
- Consider also that, of [the different solvers we tested](@ref Testing-different-solvers), we observed that Gurobi is clearly the most performant and accurate solver, so we do recommend using these scripts in combination with it for more precise results.

Now, the scripts included here depend on basic modules already included in Julia's standard library (like `LinearAlgebra` and `Statistics`), but also on few others that you need to install yourself. They are the following:

1. [JuMP.jl](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/stable/): As mentioned in the beginning, this is a basic package. It is used for all the mathematical modelling of the LP problems required.
   - Importantly, JuMP is *not* a solver itself, but the *interface* through which a optimization problem is created.
   - The optimization is done by a *solver* (*e.g.* GLPK, Gurobi, etc), which JuMP calls when a model is optimized (using, *e.g.* the `optimize!` function).
   - Throughout this document, we try to follow the JuMP's terminology: so we call *solver* any package for optimization (*e.g.* GLPK or HiGHS) and *optimizer* the function contained in this packages that is called for actually optimizing a model. Indeed, any solver compatible with JuMP has an `Optimizer` function defined in it.
   
3. [StaticArrays.jl](https://juliaarrays.github.io/StaticArrays.jl/stable/): To use static (*i.e.* fixed size) vectors for particles positions, contact vectors, etc. This type of arrays considerably speed-up vector operations (such as sum, norm, etc.) and, also importantly, guarantee that all vectors have the same dimensionality. Indeed, the value of ``d`` is inherited as the *type* of a static array (*e.g.* a contact vector is of type `SVector{d,Float64}`) and this helps to write generic code for any dimensionality.

4. [SpecialFunctions.jl](https://specialfunctions.juliamath.org/stable/): To compute the packing fraction in arbitrary dimensions we use the ``\Gamma`` function implemented in this package.

5. [Distributions.jl](https://github.com/JuliaStats/Distributions.jl): Functions to generate random initial configurations rely on some of the functions defined in this package. So it is *only necessary* if the script `random_initial_conditions.jl` is included at some point.

2. [Gurobi.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/Gurobi.jl): The Julia wrapper for the [Gurobi Solver](https://www.gurobi.com/). This is the solver we tested the most and the default choice in our algorithm. Besides, we use it to produce all the results reported in our paper.
!!! note "Installing Gurobi"
    Gurobi requires manual installation. This means that, before adding `Gurobi.jl` via the Julia's package manager, you need to have Gurobi properly installed in your system. Once you've downloaded Gurobi's latest version, follow the [installation instructions](https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/quickstart.html) of your operative system. 



Fortunately, all these packages (except for `Gurobi.jl`, which requires a manual installation of the solver itself) are very easy to install using Julia's package manager. For instance,

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add(["JuMP", "StaticArrays", "SpecialFunctions", "Distributions"])
```
will install all of them. And once you've installed Gurobi in your computer, similarly executing `Pkg.add("Gurobi")` will add the Julia wrapper.

Besides, if you want to use [an optimizer other](@ref changing_the_solver) than Gurobi, you'll need to install it too. If you want to run the tests described using [different solvers](@ref Testing-different-solvers) you also need to install: [HiGHS.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/HiGHS.jl), [GLPK.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/GLPK.jl), [Clp.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/Clp.jl), [Hypatia.jl](https://github.com/chriscoey/Hypatia.jl), and [COSMO.jl](https://github.com/oxfordcontrol/COSMO.jl). All these packages can also be conveniently be installed with `Pkg.add("<solver of your choice>")` for a single one, or

```julia
Pkg.add(["HiGHS", "GLPK", "Clp", "Hypatia", "COSMO"])
```
for adding all of them simultaneously (also after importing the `Pkg` module).

!!! warning "Issue with COSMO and Hypatia"
    In [our tests] (@ref changing_the_solver) we observed that while our code runs without any errors using both `COSMO` and `Hypatia` solvers, the packing obtained maybe either non-isostatic or the contact forces differ significantly from the ones found using the other solvers. We think that this is due to a lower precision in the solutions obtained by these solvers.

    If this is the case, it is likely that this issue can be easily solved by a correct tunning of the solvers' parameters. We were not able to find such good combination, but we did not try much. So if you have any ideas or can help us, please [contact us](@ref Getting-help)
